---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-02-09T23:50:18.241Z'
dateModified: '2016-02-09T23:49:52.852Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-02-09-dc8d349c-d4f1-47e6-8b88-a5b67c473b5f.md
published: true
url: dc8d349c-d4f1-47e6-8b88-a5b67c473b5f/index.html
_type: Article

---
In the fall of 2013 I was commissioned to digitize the handwriting of the great American writer, Edgar Allan Poe. Having a grand total of five graphic design courses completed, I felt overwhelmingly clueless about how to go about this process. So naturally, I accepted the job and got to work right away at the process, making things up as I went.

What I found was that I had ignorantly stumbled into the big wide world of typeface design. More specifically, I had accepted a commission to create a historical revival of a well-known author's personal script. This task has been taken and expertly accomplished by many better designers. But the potential to learn a new skill and further merge technology and the arts was a challenge too good to pass up.

As a way to test this new beta for TheGrid.io, and a way to catalogue my haphazard process for designing this font, I will be including some of the steps I've taken thus far. This is as much for my own self reflection as anything else. Please learn from my mistakes and don't take my process as a guide. I will include some great resources when time allows for those interested in typeface design. 

Lest my self deprecation lead you to think otherwise, I'm really enjoying being deep in the throes of this script design project. I'm confident in saying that this will not be my last typeface, and I am looking forward to starting many more. When this font is released (if I even release it) I will have learned so much about the right and wrong ways to design a typeface that the next project will be a breeze.